This is where your party gets their first hook.  There are numerous different ways that they may be drawn together or different ambitions that they have within the city, so several possible hooks are provided here.  Feel free to use any of these or devise another.  Access to the caves is moderately controlled by the local government, which has offices set up in the same section of the city.  Permits can be quite expensive for individuals (1500GP per head), but many companies are hiring workers to excavate.  Aristocrats are often willing to pay that price if they enter into an agreement to get their pick of any valuable findings, though they want their money’s worth from you.  Small guilds in town will offer work, but don’t expect them to find your entrance into the caves.  Lastly, the arena is a place where you can make, or lose, a quick buck.  Bet on fights, enter as a combatant, or both to maximize your potential earnings.  Make enough of a name for yourself, and you might catch someone’s attention and be given access without having to pay, under their conditions.

What follows is a recommended storyline, assuming a party arriving together in the city, and that they already know each other.  Further, this assumes that the party has a single, clear goal that can be answered solely, or most easily, within the city.  Lastly, it assumes that the party will act in good faith and proceed with helping those as is required to achieve their goals.

## [[Valdivium]] - [[Seven Knights Tavern]]

>As you arrived on the southern banks of RIVER_NAME, you departed the ship and ferried across the river to [[Riverside]].  This town seems mostly built around shipping and receiving, so warehouses are more common than lodging.  The ferryman gave you a name, the Seven Knights, where you might find accommodations, but you get the feeling he’s been asked to recommend that to most people.  Still, it’s a start, and so you head through the city gates and down [[Sufface Street]], a long road leading directly to the heart of the city and the spire it was built around.  The spire in the middle of town acting much like a sundial, as you reach the innermost point of Sufface St just as you see the shadow beginning to stretch south, signifying it’s almost noon.  The wide road you’re on continues west, but you have no need to follow it, as your destination seems to be right in front of you.
> Though clearly constructed at different times, and in different styles, the row of buildings running parallel to the southern face of the spire are all joined together in one massive structure.  Slipshod joinery unites previously separate buildings as the residents made use of every inch of space they could claim.  The section closest to you features a hanging sign, carved and painted with a barbute helmet, the front opening shaped like a number 7.  Two doors sit on either side of that sign, implying they are both part of the Seven Knights.
> You head in the door on the right, past the signboard listing daily specials, to the tavern you could see through the windows.  Almost immediately, a man, stocky with a notable gut, comes up to meet you.  The tavern is bustling and nearly full, and a crowd seems to have gathered around one side of the bar.

[[Barnaby Holmes]] loves to greet guests, especially ones new to the city.  And he always knows who is new to the city, because he seems to meet all of them at some point.  He’ll invite the party to a table and try to use his charismatic, if not somewhat pushy nature, to get them to join him for a round.  Perceptive members of the party can tell he’s done this a couple times already today, but doesn’t seem at all drunk for it.  If they inquire about lodging, he’ll begrudgingly recommend the next door over, the [[Seven Knights Inn]].

If looking for work, he’ll recommend a few places; the [[docks]], [[market]], the guild halls, and construction work in [[North Ward]].  For slightly riskier work, there’s the [[arena]], and probably some of the guild halls, depending on what they need done.  Each watch post, like the one across the street, would also have a few [[bounty posters]] out.  Beyond that, a bit of luck or connections might get you in good regard with an aristocrat, but honestly, the arena is your best bet, if betting is your thing.

Any other questions the group might have, he’s a good guy to answer them, if they’re willing to keep buying drinks.  Barnaby’s met half the city, served half of those he’s met, likes half of those, is in good regards with yet half of them.  His name carries some weight in the city, but that may not always be to his benefit.