The cause of this spire is lost to records, as none involved would be able to tell the tale.  As it often happens with these matters, the actions of powerful evil thwarted by bold heroes never reach the ears of the common folk if there were no witnesses.  So many forgotten tales litter the world, this may be among their greatest, as it was nearly their last.

All people have heard or seen stories of the great power of magic: A wizard and sorcerers could raise the dead, conjure demons, or even influence the flow of time; Warlocks and clerics, each conduit of the power of their patron, were capable of unworldly power that could enforce or topple armies; and the myriad of magical artifacts that were so great in themselves as to raise ordinary men to kings.  The allure of power can often prove too strong, and the fiends from other planes may feed on this temptation.  Sul Khatesh, Keeper of Secrets and Queen of Shadows, imprisoned in celestial light, is one such fiend.

A single wizard, lured by his thirst for knowledge, has been enchanted by the Queen of Shadows and works on her behalf.  In his possession, an ancient artifact that could change the fate of Faerun, an orb of unimaginable potential.  Fueled by souls, he seeks to create a bridge between our realm and the prison of the Overlords.  All the souls in the realm would not grant enough power for them to escape, but the smallest window would let her power flow unchecked across the land and overwhelm all creatures.

Not knowing the full scope of his plan, but with the number of deaths and stolen souls drawing attention, several heroes banded together and assailed the small tower in the dale where the spire now stands.  Should any find their way within the maze of the spire to the location where the battle ended, they would see the final moments, trapped in an endless cycle of for all eternity.

A rogue in the midst of using two pocket dimensions to create a planar gate; one mage casting a most powerful of spells, attempting to close the dimensional gate to the Overlords prison; a sorcerer trying to stop time and the Wizard attempting to counter it, artifacts on their bodies are reflecting the spells from their intended targets; a demonic servant battles a golden dragon, tooth, claw, and wing beating in the melee; and a crowd of fighters and beasts, gnashing and cutting at each other to vie for control all toward a central dais upon which rests a jade crystalline orb, the target of everyone’s attention; and a warrior, sword in hand, striking the orb in a hasty, off-balanced movement; and through the narrowest hole in the fabric of reality, a spell which rewinds time only a few seconds in an attempt to spare the orb.  All inside are cognizant of the time loop within which they are trapped, knowing they will never escape.

This scene cannot be penetrated from the outside, and plays out in slow motion, each actor returning to their original position every 6 seconds.  As the scene resets, a wave of chaotic magical energy emits, and it is this which continues to fuel and reshape the spire.  Shortly before the original incident, the spire of earth had been conjured and warded around the tower by a small group of wizards outside, attempting to contain the threat, and likely fallout, within.  They did not survive the encounter either, killed by the minions outside after their spell was complete and taking with them the last memories of what occurred that day.

Throughout the caves, shades resembling the Queen of Shadows have been spotted, leading delvers deeper toward the scene of the battle.  There she hopes to change events and regain her own freedom from the endless cycle of time, as it constantly drains her powers as well.  If she can, she will use any opportunity to turn it to her advantage.