This section is only temporary, but contains essential notes I don’t want to forget. 

An aristocrat within the city had commissioned an expedition into the caves, as is quite typical.  Within the caves, a powerful artifact was found, a shield bearing a rather unique insignia and design.  This shield is now housed within the [[Arcane Tower]], being analyzed by the masters of the tower.  They will discover that it’s a unique and ancient artifact, thought to be lost to the ages.  It is, and prefers to exist as, a pair with a sword, but the sword hadn’t been found.  Any who attune themselves to the shield will be inexorably drawn toward the sword, even if it means walking into grievous peril.  The warrior locked in time, striking the orb, holds the matching sword to the shield, and the shield will eventually guide the bearer to it.

The orb he is striking is an [[Orb of the Reaper]] (better name, seriously), which consumes the souls of any who die within its presence.  Trapped within it are the thousands of souls obtained when the EVIL_WIZARD spread a plague through various large cities, having roamed the plague wards to feed its power.  This plague was most sinister, as it was spread using magic, but was not itself magical, making it difficult to determine that it was caused intentionally.

The [[Orb of the Reaper]], having collected such a volume of souls, was to be used as both conduit and offering to call down an aspect of a god.  An indomitable force if summoned, there were enough souls within the orb to sustain it for quite some time, and the avatar would certainly collect more souls as it tore its way through the world, ending any major settlements.  By striking the normally indestructible orb with such a potent magical weapon, the souls released amplified the active magics in the area, causing the normally powerful spells to expand beyond control.

Having discovered a flaw in the time loop, [[EVIL_WIZARD]] was slowly edging his way toward the boundaries of its domain and would one day break free.  Even without the [[Orb of the Reaper]], he is still a formidable foe that few in the world could face.  The players are faced with a difficult decision when they discover the truth (or are told it by a member of the Arcane tower), do they intentionally break the time loop domain to join the frey, or do they intentionally help [[EVIL_WIZARD]] escape to fight him separately?

If [[EVIL_WIZARD]] is defeated in single combat, the party will still have to decide what they want to do about the situation with the time loop domain.  To destroy it would cause the magic in the surrounding area to slowly return to normal and may ruin the city, but would free those trapped inside.  The spire would likely collapse not longer after, as the tunnels and caves dug would try to reorganize themselves into reasonable geometry and fail.  Countless pocket dimensions would be crushed, and their inhabitants killed.

Underpinning this whole story is the growing discontentment of many countries with the new city state, [[Spire City]].  They gained too much power, too quickly, and other countries feel as though they are throwing their new weight around.  An embargo will eventually lead to open combat, and everyone in the city, whether or not they want to, will be forced to pick a side, unless peace can be mediated.  Politics rarely has only one solution.

New Ideas: [[EVIL_WIZARD]] is actually an artificer.  He discovered an amulet that, after attuning to it, turned out to be cursed.  He crafted an armor (Armorer subclass) to hold the curse at bay, but the amulet "led him" via suggestions to a partner ring.  Once he had both, the influence on his mind was too strong.  The dragons he controls with magic bridles he crafted, leading them at the front of his forces.  Even the [[Orb of the Reaper]].  Perhaps the goal with all of the souls is not to call down an aspect of a god, but instead to open a portal.  Do the magical artifacts want to return to their creator?  Either way, this dwarven artificer is so long lived and powerful, he's exceeded the realm of natural beings (Level 30 Artificer/Warlock).  Why has nobody made it to him within the cavern before your party?  Well, some have: dwarves.  A geis was placed on them that they cannot speak of what they found, but they refuse to enter the caves, or even be in the city, following their discovery.  It's why there are no dwarves anywhere in the story.  Very present are the Aarakocra, the first to discover the spire and build simple dwellings along its peaks.  They still hold incredible sway in government for this reason, even if they are the least likely to enter the caves themselves.