As the GM, you guide the narrative being played out by the players.  The number one rule in this regard is to make sure the game is the Rule of Fun: if a decision or event within the rules would make the game less fun for everyone, ignore the rules.  That being said, making a game easier doesn’t mean it’s more fun, and making a game too difficult can make it frustrating.

Pacing is very important to the game.  Just because the players have found themselves in an open-ended environment doesn’t mean there’s nothing which you can describe that stands out to them.  Don’t just say “You enter a dark room, what do you do?”  Try instead saying “You enter a dimly lit room, the braziers having long since snuffed.  However, the coal within them still has some heat, and kindling is stacked in the corner.  A glint from your torches reveals a mirror along the northern wall, set into an alcove.  The southern wall features a similar alcove, but it’s empty.  What would you like to investigate first?”  This queues the players in that there are several, possibly key features in the room and gives them points they might wish to investigate.

Similar to the topic of pacing is puzzle building.  The space within the cave doesn’t follow the usual boundaries of reality, and makes for great opportunities at problem solving.  Each puzzle which inhibits the progress of the party should be, within itself, sufficiently self-contained as to not require significant action beyond the puzzle to resolve.  Don’t have a combination lock which requires a code written on a scrap of paper in a random desk drawer three miles away to impede your party.  Treat each puzzle more akin to an escape room, where the solution lies within their wits and the few resources around them.

As you challenge your players, don’t forget that the environment itself is perhaps the greatest challenge you have available, especially with a non Euclidian design being available to you.  A locked door which takes you to a different location when opened compared to when it’s broken down, hallways that lead to different locations based upon which wall you’re closer to as you travel, or areas which make no sense in realistic geometry.  Worried about your players getting trapped too far down in the cave and needing a long trek back to the surface?  Why not have them wander into a town in a pocket dimension.  Really want them to get back to Spire City?  How about a doorknob that can turn any surface into a door, but leads to different places based on where it’s used, so you can Deus Ex Machina it into a town portal.