The overall villain (Sul Khatesh, who you will never actually fight) of the story is actually guiding the party to become stronger.  Creatures that could kill them being banished, unexpected rescues, easy fights to build XP, etc.  Because they've got a connection with the shield paired with the warrior's sword, he's looking for them to be reunited in the hope that the power would allow him to be free of his time-loop prison, even if it means the loss of his precious orb and all of his plans.  The party's success is only because of his guiding hand.

Perhaps in the lore the pathways used to be far more chaotic.  Over time, especially since the shield was discovered, they've become more stable and predictable.  This is all the guiding hand, trying to untangle the threads of magic to create pathways that lead to the central room.  That room is the confluence of all pathways, so it connects to all contained worlds and can become the junction point to reach anywhere else.  Even after the problems are resolved, the pathways won't collapse immediately and there may even be pathways that weren't accessible before that open to the players.  Some post-game content or post-level 20 content that they could explore for a short time.  Maybe even an ending where they exit to another world as the pathway closes behind them, allowing the characters to leave the campaign and end up anywhere else.

Freeing Sul Khatesh is actually to her benefit, and she will grant a boon to the players, if they're willing to receive it.  "In my attempts to escape this prison, I sought out any other dimension that I might be free.  It seems my magics were rejected here, and caused unexpected behaviors to emerge.  Now that I am free, I will learn more before I attempt such a route again.  For your part in this, I offer you each a gift.  I am Keeper of Secrets and Master of the Arcane, even within this cage my knowledge and power are unparalleled within your realm."  Her benefits may include granting a Boon, imparting a great secret, improving ability scores (even beyond 20), teaching custom spells, 