Each person has their own reason for travelling to [[Spire City]].  Many tourists flock to see the spectacle of wonder that is the spire and the strange phenomena it causes, others wish to travel into the carved [[Spire Caves|caves]] and find the mysteries within.  Some have built their fortune from providing to, or preying upon, those who visit or reside there.  Scholars have taken up residence to study the chaotic nature of magic, and those who can attune themselves often deepen their understanding of the magical arts.  Each person, whether knowledge, coin, or experience, has their own cause for visiting the city.

Members of the party may already be residents of the city, tourists, or new arrivals looking to set up shop.  Prior to the first game session, work out with each player (or players, as some may have shared history) what their ambitions are and how they might find themselves in that city.  Here are some suggestions that can be made to help when determining this:

-   The arcane fluctuations often prevent or disrupt scrying and tracking magics that would locate a criminal or otherwise wanted person    
-   Rare components, such as those which may be used for medicine, are often traded in the city and discovered in the caves.
-   Powerful artifacts, including weapons and armor, can be found both having formed within the caves themselves.  A warrior may seek one such artifact to aide in a coming battle or to improve their combat abilities in general
-   The fluctuations that are emitted produce unusual effects on magic, so a scholar or person so attuned may wish to study the effects and how they may improve their own magic
-   Such phenomena are sure to breed religious or cult followings, or have the place deemed holy or unholy.  An acolyte may be tasked with making a pilgrimage to the area.
-   With so many rare items, a fortune may be made in the city for those who can spot treasure from trash.  Auction houses, shops, and guild halls quickly lined the streets as the city sprang up.
-   With so many wealthy persons emerging, a sort of aristocracy has begun to form, bolstered by old family aristocrats moving to the city.  They divide themselves into two groups, those by family and those by fortune, but the gifts of the latter have let them ingratiate themselves to the former so that the two have much the same standing in modern times.  The favor of this aristocracy holds sway in many cities around the world.
-   With so many wealthy and educated persons flocking to the city, the few schools and libraries quickly rose to be among the best in the world.  While they mainly specialize in local study, they do contain information from the world at large.

No matter their reason for arriving at the city, the two most commonly traversed areas of town for all persons are Valdivium and [[Maudram]].  With the primary residential areas being [[The Boroughs]] and [[East Gate]], [[Valdivium]] has become a hub for all of those common life activities, like shopping and drinking, which all persons engage in.  Even those staying in [[Riverside]], just south of the city walls, will frequently travel into [[Valdivium]] to buy or sell goods.

For this reason, it’s recommended to begin campaigns in [[Valdivium]], and have that as the likely place where the party meets up for the first time, if they do not already know each other, but this is open to the GM to do with as they please.  Other options include in the [[Maudram]] when attempting to get access to the caves or even encountering a person or two inside the caves, useful if there’s someone who can’t make it to the first session or two while the party spends time trying to get access into the caves or whatever ends up bringing them there.  There are several possible hooks.