The town of Riverside, situated south of the walls of [[Spire City]], is officially considered part of the city, but operates as its own independent town.  Situated on the [[RIVER_NAME]], it’s a hub of travel where most travelers begin.  The north face of the river, closest to [[Spire City]], is used for inbound traffic which flows easily into the town, as all waters converge there.  The south bank is used for departing traffic, which must row against the waters of the river.  They stick towards the bank and an entire business of [[Haulers]] has sprung up in that area, people with strong pack animals that get lashed to the boats to help haul them up river. ^377c95

Most boats arrive from the south of the river, though the north flows toward the town as well.  This is because the climate to the north can get quite frigid once you make it over the mountains (the city is set in a dale, a wide valley), so fewer people live that way.  With the south as the primary trading route, many small towns have grown along the river’s edge to support the travelling merchants.  It’s slow-going when heading against the current, and the animals and rowers moving the boats get tired, so these towns offer easy places to drop anchor and rest without worrying about the river for an evening, and maybe spend some of their coin.

Riverside itself is nothing stand-out amongst towns, except for its scale.  [[Dock workers]] are capable of unloading a fully laden ship in a single day, freeing space in the port for the next ship to dock.  Riverside hosts three docks, each with two piers, so they can keep a constant cycle of ships flowing in and out.  Those awaiting their turn will anchor along the south/east bank until a pier is made available to them, being signaled by their flag when they are called into port.  Ships without a registered flag within the port receive lower priority and must wait until the signalman signs for them to dock, which may sometimes be several days.  Ship passengers may often disembark on the southern bank and take small ferries across the river to Riverside during this time, instead of waiting for an open pier.

Riverside itself is mostly warehouses and residential housing, so players wouldn’t find much to do here to pass time.  That said, the frequency of travelers and new workers means they likely wouldn’t stand out if loitering in this part of town.  Most people travel from Riverside to [[Valdivium]] if they need to do any shopping or want to visit a tavern, so that main thoroughfare is quite wide into the city. ^b714ae