The largest market in [[Spire City]], it's a cornerstone of [[Valdivium]] and fiercely protected by residents, despite bordering [[East Gate]].  Originally named [[Prastic Market]] after its financier, [[D'Arnough Prastic]], the name started to change following his death only a couple years after its creation.  This may have been intentional, as he wasn't well liked.

This open-air market spans a massive area in the city, easily holding several thousand people at one time.  Vendors set up stands and booths within the guidelines set by the [[Harvest Moon Guild]], which has assumed the administration of the market place.  The southern expansion of the market is where vendors compete first-come-first-serve for spaces, with some vendors camping out the night before.  At the ringing of the first bell, vendors are allowed to enter the market to begin claiming their spaces, typically done by rolling out a rug.  Per the rules, a vendor is not allowed to touch or move the rug of another vendor, and in the case of overlaps, the vendor on bottom claims the area.  The white stone pathways are to remain unobstructed, and market administrators have been known to walk the area with a blade, cutting from the rugs where they overlap the stone.

On the northern side of the market, spaces have been purchased in advance and are occupied regularly by the same companies and vendors.  Any vendor who had the space that day gets the first opportunity to buy it for the next day following the close of business, assuming they met the minimum sale requirement.  To be sick and miss even a single day could mean being locked out of the northern market for months.  Vendors in the northern market must not only purchase the space, which is expensive, but must give 10% of their earnings to have the right to purchase the space again.

At the center of the market is the administration building, where the bell tower is located.  Currently occupied by the Harvest Moon Guild, this is not actually their headquarters, so it's often lightly staffed.