Formerly part of the [[Seven Knights Inn]] and Tavern, when their father died and left the business to them, the brothers [[Barnaby Holmes]] and [[Alek Holmes]] fought over the running of the business.  Eventually, Barnaby took the downstairs tavern and Alek took over the inn that occupied mainly the second and third floor, building a dividing wall between entrances to each.  As such, the reception area for the inn is quite small, just a counter to the side of a hallway leading to the stairs up.  [[Their sister]] took monetary compensation, instead of inheriting the business, as she does not live in [[Spire City]].

The Seven Knights Tavern is situated on [[Sufface Street]], perhaps the most widely travelled road in [[Valdivium]].  It leads straight from the city gates heading north, before turning to head west toward [[The Boroughs]].  The Seven Knights is located right at the corner of the road, making it the prime position in the city for both new arrivals and residents heading toward the marketplace, on the east side of the district.

The Seven Knights earns its name because the original founder claims to be one of a band of seven who traveled into the cave in the early days.  He used the fortune brought from selling his discoveries to finance the construction of the inn and tavern, which had stayed in the family for four generations before being separated by the brothers.

The tavern is a single room with the entrance in the southwest corner, though there is a back room accessible to employees beside the bar.  A second door in the north west leads to the back alley where a patron may find relief.  It features near to a dozen tables, each typically with four chairs.  The eastern wall houses the bar, a stack of kegs behind it making clear the type of drinks favored in this establishment.  The beer and ale are very flavorful, but not strong, so those looking to get drunk must spend more.